---
title:  "读写分离 CQRS Pattern"
date:   2021-03-22 11:12:27 +0800
categories: [系统框架]
tags: [模式]
---

## What is CQRS
> It states that every method should either be a command that performs an action, or a query that returns data to the caller, but not both.
> In other words, asking a question should not change the answer. More formally, methods should return a value only if they are referentially
> transparent and hence possess no side effects.

Essentially, the Mediator pattern is well suited for CQRS implementation

## Advantages of CQRS
- Highly Scalable

  Having control over the models in accordance with the type of data operations makes your application highly scalable in the long run.

- Improved Performance

  Practically speaking there are always 10 times more Read Operations as compared to the Write Operation. With this pattern you could speed up the performance on your read operations by introducing a cache or NOSQL Db like Redis or Mongo. CQRS pattern will support this usage out of the box, you would not have to break your head trying to implement such a cache mechanism.

- Secure Parallel Operations

  Since we have dedicated models per oprtation, there is no possibility of data loss while doing parellel operations.



In his CQRS article Martin Fowler warns: “For some situations, this separation can be valuable, but beware that for most systems CQRS adds risky complexity.”

对于某些场景，读写分离是值得的，但需要注意，对于大部分系统而言，读写分离增加了崩溃的复杂度。


[CQRS with MediatR in ASP.NET Core 3.1 – Ultimate Guide](https://codewithmukesh.com/blog/cqrs-in-aspnet-core-3-1/)
